The Joe Rogan.
Experience. So when you were saying that you collect films and you have, uh,
films, did you, do you go back to like the really old ones? Like noserro.
Oh yeah. I love silent movies and now they're easier to get,
cuz I always lovedloncheney. But so many of the films were hard to.
Get. I was showing my kids lawncheney two nights ago. What, what movie did they?
Well, we, I was showing 'em the, um,
the original Wolf man and I was showing him Jacqueline Hyde.
I was showing him some of the longcheney Jr. Was well longchainney Jr. Was.
Wolfn Wolf, man. Dad, who was in like fan of the opera and fan of.
Punch back in. No Dame was Jacqueline Hyde as well. That was longcheney right.
Norederick March. Oh,
well it depends what there's the John Barry Moore silent Jacqueline Hyde.
But you probablyt shoot. Oh, the Frederick, March one is great.
It's so perverted, IST really? Like with the prostitutes and stuff. Isn't it.
The one you showed your kids, like from the 30? Oh yeah, for sure. <laugh> from.
The thirties. Is that what that's, where they pour watch porn?
Well, there's the boring one with Spencer. Tracy is just, is it boring? Uh,
it just compared to the other one,
the other one's because anything that's sort of like the pre-code stuff is
really, we watch.
Uh, the beginning of the Spencer Tracy won because it was so strange. They,
there there's actually, when, you know, in iTunes you can watch a preview,
but it's not really a preview in its old films. Cause they didn't have yeah.
Previews back then.
So it's just a scene and it's a scene when he's becoming Mr. Hyde,
but he doesn't look any different. Yeah. He.
Just kinda messed up. His hair looks, looks a little meaner, you know? Oh,
Frederick, March one is one of the best ones I ever made. It's so good.
But lone Channey was like it washantom of the opera,
which is a really interesting one because he, he like,
he put on some really painful makeup for that.
I mean he just invented everything. Yeah. The way he, the things he'd do.
I mean,
I don't know how much the stories have been exaggerated by publicity departments
over the years, but yeah. I mean,
it's just incredible and movies like the unknown or the unholy three mm-hmm
<affirmative> like you can get everything now forever.
It' was like impossible to see these movies for a long time.
I don't do it anymore,
but I used to collect vintage movie posters and that's what I would go after
the, the lawn Channey silent movie posters. Yeah.
Cause a lot of times I'd be like,
there's only one of these in existence and I'm so like I gotta have it.
Then I realize I'm spending too much money on things. <laugh>.
Those old films. Um, you know, when I'm I was trying to show 'em to my kids.
I was just trying to ex we were,
we were going from the twenties to the thirties. There's a movie.
That's the original horror film that I found out was TW 1920.
It's actually two years old than nosferrado. It was uh,
Dr. Something, Dr. Callagari.
Callagari yes. Yeah. That's a good one. Yes.
Yeah. We watched a little bit of that too,
but I just wanted to show them how weird it is. Like the progression of film,
particularly like scary films. Because when my kids were real little, uh,
my wife was outta town and uh, I said, do you guys wanna watch a scary movie?
Not really scary. And they were nervous. How old were they at the time?
I think they were five and three or maybe six and four somewhere around there.
<Laugh> so I put throwing down the test. Do you want to watch it? But.
I knew it. Wasn't gonna be really scary. Yeah.
So I put on the original king Kong from what was that like? Thirtynineteen.
33. Three, I think. Yeah, something.
Like that. And uh, we were laughing. I was like, let me tell you something,
we're gonna watch this. And it's so fake. It looks so dumb. I go, we're gonna,
we're gonna laugh. And so we're cuddled up on the couch and they were nervous.
And then once they saw the thing, they're like, that's it. That's the monster.
<laugh> I was like, let me tell you something kid to 1933,
this was scary for people. They really thought this was realistic.
They thought this was amazing.
Do you ever have that moment? You'll watch something. Like, say I,
I do this like Frankenstein. Yeah.
Like you've seen it so many times that it's hard to watch it.
Like you've never seen it before,
but sometimes I'll be watching something and there'll be a scene where like
Frankenstein's killing Fritzs and there's no music. He's just screaming.
And I was like,
this must have been so intense cuz no one had seen anything like this.
They're watching this creature who they don't understand the makeup because no
one knew I was done.
Like especially he cuz he kind of the first appearance of Karl off his Frank,
he kind of backs in and turns and I, his head's.
Flat he's got and his neck it's.
So in the Jack Pierce makeup is so incredible that I was just like,
people must have been like running for the door.
Pull up a picture of what Boris Karloff looked like in that movie.
I haven't seen that in forever, but I'm it's so good. It was so good. I mean,
and the also it's so difficult for us to understand perspective,
like to, to, to put yourself in their place back then. Yeah. Look at that.
Yeah. I mean, lighting was incredible.
Now we're used to seeing that it's so iconic that like, or that it becomes like,
but if you'd never, I mean, never seen anything like that before. I mean,
I guess going back to what we said a second ago, like lawncheney,
inhanmma the opera and, and its quasi motor, you kind of the bolts in the,
but that must have just been like.
Cables for a battery. <laugh> that's so crazy. The posts on his neck.
Do you remember when uh, they did a remake with de Niro? I do.
I don't remember a movie. Very good. I don't.
Remember it either, but I remember it being terrifying, looking like they, yeah,
he was updated.
Yeah. He looked cool in that. Yeah.
He it's a tough one though with those movies because they got it so right.
The first time. Yeah. And the performances are like, when I watch, like I,
I really like Lagosi in Dracula and when you watch it,
I always feel like he's like Brando of that time because everyone else is like
talking like yeah, well like,
like they're still doing vodkaville and they're way over the top and there too
much. And he's like this in this, doing this thing. Yeah.
Where sometimes you like,
you can't almost can't understand him cause of his accent. Like, wow.
He's like in this whole weird head trip and they're like doing play,
Hey listen buddy.
You know like the way they're talking it's and that's why nobody can remember
David mans who got paid 10 times with leggoci. But,
but lagosi's like this I iconic thing like Marilyn Monroe. I mean,
that just was so out of time with so special what they were doing. Yeah. Even.
In the, when in the film,
there's a scene where the woman had been bit and he is like, what's wrong?
<laugh> what's going on. Yes.
And he's so corny and over the top and in that, you know,
the style of that era, but Lagosi is on another level. And the, and.
Like everybody,
like a lot of those actors then seem very much like they were in the closet and
they were trying to like play with the woman <laugh> and Lagosi has that vibe,
like, I'm gonna everything on this set before I leave this movie, you know?
Yeah. He just reaks of like,
I'm from I'm Hungarian and I'm gonna nail every actress in this film.
Yeah. And he's a powerful vampire. Like he bought into it,
like he was in the role, he was.
In the head space and a lot of those movies,
another good one's like the black cat where like the same guy was in the
dracculism and he's so like swishy and over the top and Lagosi,
and karlla together is so intense.
It's like this two different movies going on the,
this weird H movie and this weird thing these other guys are doing, man.
It's like Brando and apocalypse now. Like he's making a whole different movie.
Him and Dennis Hopper. Yes. Yeah.
You know, it's cool to just go back in time and see the progression of,
of ho are to go from those films.
Like I still think nosferrado to this day is one of the coolest vampires ever.
Cause it was it's so incredible looking. There was no,
there was no sort of benchmark yeah. Before him. Right. I mean,
and he looked so weird with the long fingers. Yeah.
And he looked creepy and the way he would rise,
remember when they had him on a board. Yeah. It.
Just was like, and he straight up sit straight up it's so it looks incredible.
And I still, and I love the, um,
the herzzog remake with Klauss Kinsky oh, that's right. Is amazing. Did that.
Yeah. And Kinski's so like he so perfect. Wow.
Cause HES like another,
that crazy actor that just reekaks it crazy right off the screen. Yes.
Yes. Yes. It's just hard to do a good monster movie these days.
I mean, I'm a gigantic Rick B baker fan. Obviously you see the, yeah.
Rick he's coming on here too. Oh, is he super pumped? Oh.
Yeah. His new book looks amazing.
Yeah. I'm so excited. I'm getting him to promote that, but I'm just, I was,
when I was a kid, I wanted to be a makeup artist.
It was one things that I wanted to do. Yeah.
So I studied Rick baker and I studied, you know, the, the early longchey days,
like we were talking about and I just love the prosthetics and like star wars
and. Like, which, by the way, I went to the star wars, uh, attraction yesterday.
Oh you did at Disneyland. It's the <laugh> Ooh,
that star wars ride. The ride is incredible, man. You'reactually it's simulated.
Though, right? Yes. I can't do it. Simulated.
' simulated ride you if you wanna just I won't throw up,
but I'll feel like I want to for the rest of.
The day. It's awesome. It's awesome. So my, my kids were steering.
They got a chance to steer the,
they were the pilots and you're slamming into cause they have to coordinate.
One goes up, one goes left and right.
So up and down is one kid and left and rights. Yeah, they are.
They next to each other and the PI or are they separate? Like how next.
To each otherhan and, but they're screaming at each other. <laugh> don't.
Hit it. Oh my God. They're like asteroids flying out. Boom.
Things are they're hitting. But, but uh, just the ride is incredible.
I mean, you could see there's so much money poured into there.
And apparently there's a bunch of other ones that are they're they're in the
process of developing too. Oh really? But I loved the,
those movies and a big part of it was like, like the Cantina scene.
If you, if you went to that now you'd be like, oh my God, it's obviously a mask.
Oh yeah. Like their face. Doesn't be like, ah, it's like that weird weol guy.
Yeah. No, but they're not moving <laugh> you know,
but back then I was like, this is amazing. This.
Is the, my God' can so clearly seeing that,
remember seeing that movie for the first time. Oh yeah, because I was like it,
like you come out. I remember coming outta the movie, like shell shocked,
like everything I thought about everything just changed.
Yeah. <laugh> it's so life will never be the same.
That's another movie that's so hard to put in perspective.
I've watched it with my kids now. And it's like,
you gotta bring them back to the 1970s when this movie came out. Yeah.
Like you don't get it like back then. This was insane. How good it was. Yeah.
People would wa I mean, I watched it, like,
I think we had little competitions with our friends to see who could watch it
the most amount of times. I think I saw it like 13 times.
Yeah. I mean, it's crazy. And I, someone gave me a laser, not a laser.
Performation a Blueray of the original before Lucas did all the extra
stuff and ruined it. Somehow they had cut together.
Somebody went to all the trouble of getting like a Japanese lasers and,
and they cut together a Blueray of exactly the movie as it was in 1977. What.
Did he do differently in the new version.
Enhance some of the special effects. He added that scene with the digital,
you know, job of the HUD and just like, there'll be like the tton that's like,
there's just little robots and everywhere that wasn't there.
And the original like, oh,
and now what seems so had asked for effects in whatever it was 2000 now looked
super bad. Crazy. So, but the stuff from 77 still, that's why I always wanna,
like you watch 2001, you go like,
how can this still look better than everything? Yeah.
These are literally models shot in 1968 or something. Well, cuprick.
Knew the limitations of the visual format.
And so he, he shot things in a way where he didn't,
he wasn't willing to compromise the way something looked to show you something
that look like he sort of like the king Kong animation,
like that's the best they could do back then. Yeah.
But cubrick figured workarounds.
That I just read this new book that came out well, maybe six months ago,
that's all about the Mac 2001. And, and it's, the book is so detailed.
I wish I could remember the title of, and it's amazing the amount of time,
like it's stuff you take for granted out just how they had to make the digital
readouts on the computer screens. Mm.
Because that stuff didn't exist did not exist, exist at all.
So the amount of time that went into just simple background things that nobody
cares about it, it is just mind blowing. Yeah.
And just the waitlessness scenes and how they did all that stuff,
which still look amazing.
No, it's still an incredible movie and it's also a time capsule. Right.
It's like, it's one of those films that it's great, but it's also great.
And a time capsule. Yeah.
It's I, I love it because.
Um,
I love all his movies for the same reason because they take over the
viewer, like most movies. They're like,
you watch it and it's doing what the movie thinks will make you happy.
Whereasubrick's doing stuff like, well,
this is what it would be like to be in space. Yeah. This is the pay.
It's gonna unfold that. Yeah. Like, which is painfully slow at times. Well,
you can't get away with that today.
No, cuz people are too they're I don't know. They are rolled up.
They don't have the attention span. I don't think.
And same thing with Barry Lindon or clockwork orange doesn't matter what movie
it is. His so the shining. Yes. Like now if someone made the shining to go,
it's great. You gotta cut the first hour out of it. <laugh> you know, too much.
We're gonna start it with a red rom scene. Yeah. Started with a hatchet. Yeah.
No slamming into somebody. Yeah. The opening shot would be, you know.
And then go three months earliers. Yeah. Then get with the ax. Yeah.
They would do that. They would go three months earlier, you know,
they would do that. It's um, it's, it's cool to see though,
like those films,
they did what they could do with what was available.
Whereas with now the problem with CGI is they use it.
And they overuse it. Yeah. And I think that I don't, I don't, I mean,
CGI can be phenomenal for sure,
but it's a tool and it's turned into a crutch and I see it with actors.
Like you see actors a lot of time and I feel bad a for the actors you'll see the
actors that you go. I know these guys are great,
but they're awful in this movie because they didn't train to stand in a
warehouse that's green and pretend to look at stuff. Yeah. Right.
So they really like, like when you watch the Phanto manes, you go,
why does it suddenly seem like Liam Nison can't act. Right, right, right.
Because he's like, they're like, look at that dot on the wall. I mean,
and you know, these guys are incredible actors.
I was talking to somebody once a kid that was in my movie,
he was in all the spy kids movies.
And he said it was so hard because they'd be on a green screen and they'd be
like, you're looking at that. Well, we're not sure what you're looking at,
but just stare at that dot and react. He's like, well, what is it? <laugh>,
you know, is it a dragon? Or is it my mom? What am I react?
Like we haven't figured it out yet.
And he said he was always in a constant state of confusion as to what he was
reacting to. Well.
It's hard too, when you go back and you look at some of them, like,
you know what movie got it. Right.
That sort of didn't get enough respect in its time. But in, in, in time,
like as time passed, it's become more respect it as Starship troopers.
Yeah. I don't, I don't remember that movie that, well, it's.
A, you know, it's all like, they're gonna say force gums. Oh.
<Laugh> no, but like, like removing major Dan's legs. I mean, that's like,
when CG's awesome. I thought, oh. They found a guy with no legs.
Who's a great actor. Cuz I don't know who garysice was back then.
How about the ping pong.
Scene? Yeah. He was a lot of like stuff like amazing it. Yeah. The um,
what I was gonna with with monster movies though. It's um, uh, pat McGee.
He's the guy who did that. WWOL the one that's out there. Oh yeah.
He he'll make 'em for you. Like he makes oh really? Oh.
And we had this conversation about it. We were saying that you,
you can see CGI and even if it's awesome, your brain knows it's CGI.
That's funny that I have that same thought that it's something sublimal your
brain knows. It's all fake. Yes. Like godilla whereas like, yeah, like Godzilla,
like when, you know, it's a guy in a rubber suit, crushing things.
Like if you watch the original one with like, when they cut in Raymond Burr,
there's something so dark and up about that movie. Yes. Cause everything's,
that's real fire. There's actually three dimensional objects blowing up.
But when it's so big and fake, like I always say like what's scarier,
uh, a giant CG creature that, you know,
you will never see or like a maniac with a pillow case over his head,
holding an ax coming at you. Like your brain goes, that could happen. I get it.
Yeah. Cause the other thing's like, well that's, I'm not gonna,
that's like Roger rabbit. That's not gonna happen. You know? It's not,
it might be cool. Or it might be big, but it's.
Not like one of the scariest hard movies of all time is alien. Yeah.
And in the fur first few encounters they have with the creature,
you don't even see the thing. No, because.
It's, you couldn't show it that much. Like the, you know, like the Sharken jaws,
but when you see it, it's like it's actually there. Yes.
And you can feel that it's jaws are right in front of saegourney Weaver's face.
Yes.
It's not like she's looking at nothing and her eyeline's a little off because
it's a, you know, a tennis ball and a stick she's looking at,
there's something about it really happening in the space that I think people can
feel it. And.
Egourney Weaver is I think seegurney Weaver and alien is the greatest female
action hero star ever because you bought it hook line in sinker.
She was a scientist. She wasn't supposed to be this heroin.
That's out there just things up and killing everybody. And she wasn't.
Supposed to be super hot and sexy and young,
but she was hot enough because she became tough and it, it made her, but like,
like the whole, I remember when alien came out,
it was kind of like when the thing came out and all the reviews were bad.
If you remember, wasn't it really? Yeah. I mean the ruless are,
everything are bad when you go back and like,
oh these the there's no redeemable characters or they're all cartoon, you know,
these cardboard characters, they rip everything apart. But,
but like it's like Harry Dean Stan yaaff Koto is amazing.
Every great character actor doing these great roles. But it was like, now,
if they remmead that it'd be like, everybody the reviews, you know?
But that's the thing you,
the reviews never mean anything that just like so crazy.
The first time was it Harry Dean Stanton that saw it the first time?
Who was it that saw it the first time were they, they climbed down into the, uh,
they, they climbed down the stairs and it's it's right there.
I don't only remember, only see it for like a second,
but it was a physical thing. But the point is it was an actual guy in a suit.
Yeah. And you knew by the way,
it was moving that it was an actual I right in front of him.
And it took up three dimensional space in real life. Yes. And you could feel it,
you could feel yes. And you know yeah. I mean, just like when the chessbu thing.
Yes. It's a, it it's an actual thing. It's a thing, you know? Yeah. It's like,
it's bizarre.
Or an American worldoff in London, same.
Thing. You see brief glimpses of this thing, like really quick, like one frame,
one second of it, you know? And then at the end of it, you, you see it,
even when they mur, they kill it in the hallway or in the, uh, alleyway,
spoiler alert. <laugh> um, that's, you know,
you only see it for a couple seconds when it,
when it stares to her and then they gun it down. Yeah.
That was like the heyday for effects. Everybody I know who does effects.
It was like the thing American wear for London or the howling was like the thing
that made every,
and fanorri when that started and you started really getting articles and stuff
and like Rob Boin and Rick baker the week became like rock stars to the,
the horn nerds.
I.